docs/index.md, before:

---
organization: francois2metz
category: ["public cloud"]
brand_color: "#45AFE4"
display_name: "Scalingo"
short_name: "scalingo"
description: "Steampipe plugin for querying apps, addons and more from Scalingo."
og_description: "Query Scalingo with SQL! Open source CLI. No DB required."
og_image: "/images/plugins/francois2metz/scalingo-social-graphic.png"
icon_url: "/images/plugins/francois2metz/scalingo.svg"
---

# Scalingo + Steampipe

[Scalingo](https://scalingo.com/) provides on-demand cloud computing platforms and APIs to authenticated customers on a metered pay-as-you-go basis.

[Steampipe](https://steampipe.io) is an open source CLI to instantly query cloud APIs using SQL.

For example:

```sql
select
  name,
  region,
  url
from
  scalingo_app
```

```
+--------------------+----------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| name               | region         | url                                                  |
+--------------------+----------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| caresteouvert-map  | osc-fr1        | https://caresteouvert.fr                             |
| caresteouvert-api  | osc-secnum-fr1 | https://caresteouvert-api.osc-secnum-fr1.scalingo.io |
+--------------------+----------------+------------------------------------------------------+
```

## Documentation

- **[Table definitions & examples →](/plugins/francois2metz/scalingo/tables)**

## Get started

### Install

Download and install the latest Scalingo plugin:

```bash
steampipe plugin install francois2metz/scalingo
```

### Configuration

Installing the latest scalingo plugin will create a config file (`~/.steampipe/config/scalingo.spc`) with a single connection named `scalingo`:

```hcl
connection "scalingo" {
  plugin = "francois2metz/scalingo"

  # API token for your scalingo instance (required).
  # Get it on: https://dashboard.scalingo.com/account/tokens
  # token = "tk-us-0000-0000-000000000-000000000000000"

  # Regions
  # By default the scalingo plugin will only use the osc-fr1 region
  # regions = ["osc-fr1", "osc-secnum-fr1"]
}
```

You can also use environment variables:

- `SCALINGO_TOKEN` for the API token (ex: tk-us-00000-0000-000)

## Get Involved

* Open source: https://github.com/francois2metz/steampipe-plugin-scalingo

## Multi-Account Connections

You may create multiple scalingo connections:
```hcl
connection "scalingo_osc" {
  plugin   = "francois2metz/scalingo"
  regions  = ["osc-fr1"]
  token    = "tk-us-00000-0000-000"
}

connection "scalingo_secnum" {
  plugin   = "francois2metz/scalingo"
  regions  = ["osc-secnum-fr1"]
  token    = "tk-us-00000-0000-000"
}
```

Each connection is implemented as a distinct [Postgres schema](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/ddl-schemas.html).  As such, you can use qualified table names to query a specific connection:

```sql
select * from scalingo_osc.scalingo_app
```

You can multi-account connections by using an [**aggregator** connection](https://steampipe.io/docs/using-steampipe/managing-connections#using-aggregators).  Aggregators allow you to query data from multiple connections for a plugin as if they are a single connection:

```
connection "scalingo_all" {
  plugin      = "francois2metz/scalingo"
  type        = "aggregator"
  connections = ["scalingo_osc", "scalingo_secnum"]
}
```

Querying tables from this connection will return results from the `scalingo_osc`, and `scalingo_secnum` connections:
```sql
select * from scalingo_all.scalingo_app
```

Steampipe supports the `*` wildcard in the connection names.  For example, to aggregate all the Scalingo plugin connections whose names begin with `scalingo_`:

```hcl
connection "scalingo_all" {
  type        = "aggregator"
  plugin      = "francois2metz/scalingo"
  connections = ["scalingo_*"]
}
```

Commit message:

Update doc to use the new credentials section.

docs/index.md, after:

---
organization: francois2metz
category: ["public cloud"]
brand_color: "#45AFE4"
display_name: "Scalingo"
short_name: "scalingo"
description: "Steampipe plugin for querying apps, addons and more from Scalingo."
og_description: "Query Scalingo with SQL! Open source CLI. No DB required."
og_image: "/images/plugins/francois2metz/scalingo-social-graphic.png"
icon_url: "/images/plugins/francois2metz/scalingo.svg"
---

# Scalingo + Steampipe

[Scalingo](https://scalingo.com/) provides on-demand cloud computing platforms and APIs to authenticated customers on a metered pay-as-you-go basis.

[Steampipe](https://steampipe.io) is an open source CLI to instantly query cloud APIs using SQL.

For example:

```sql
select
  name,
  region,
  url
from
  scalingo_app
```

```
+--------------------+----------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| name               | region         | url                                                  |
+--------------------+----------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| caresteouvert-map  | osc-fr1        | https://caresteouvert.fr                             |
| caresteouvert-api  | osc-secnum-fr1 | https://caresteouvert-api.osc-secnum-fr1.scalingo.io |
+--------------------+----------------+------------------------------------------------------+
```

## Documentation

- **[Table definitions & examples →](/plugins/francois2metz/scalingo/tables)**

## Get started

### Install

Download and install the latest Scalingo plugin:

```bash
steampipe plugin install francois2metz/scalingo
```

### Credentials

| Item        | Description                                                                                                                                                                   |
|-------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Credentials | Scalingo requires a [token](https://dashboard.scalingo.com/account/tokens).                                                                                                   |
| Permissions | Tokens have the same permissions as the user who creates them.                                                                                                                |
| Radius      | Each connection represents a single Scalingo account.                                                                                                                         |
| Resolution  | 1. Credentials explicitly set in a steampipe config file (`~/.steampipe/config/scalingo.spc`)<br />2. Credentials specified in environment variables, e.g., `SCALINGO_TOKEN`. |

### Configuration

Installing the latest scalingo plugin will create a config file (`~/.steampipe/config/scalingo.spc`) with a single connection named `scalingo`:

```hcl
connection "scalingo" {
    plugin = "francois2metz/scalingo"

    # API token for your scalingo instance (required).
    # Get it on: https://dashboard.scalingo.com/account/tokens
    # This can also be set via the `SCALINGO_TOKEN` environment variable.
    # token = "tk-us-0000-0000-000000000-000000000000000"

    # Regions
    # By default the scalingo plugin will only use the osc-fr1 region
    # regions = ["osc-fr1", "osc-secnum-fr1"]
}
```

### Credentials from Environment Variables

The Scalingo plugin will use the following environment variables to obtain credentials **only if other argument (`token`) is not specified** in the connection:

```sh
export SCALINGO_TOKEN=tk-us-00000-0000-000
```

## Get Involved

* Open source: https://github.com/francois2metz/steampipe-plugin-scalingo

## Multi-Account Connections

You may create multiple scalingo connections:
```hcl
connection "scalingo_osc" {
  plugin   = "francois2metz/scalingo"
  regions  = ["osc-fr1"]
  token    = "tk-us-00000-0000-000"
}

connection "scalingo_secnum" {
  plugin   = "francois2metz/scalingo"
  regions  = ["osc-secnum-fr1"]
  token    = "tk-us-00000-0000-000"
}
```

Each connection is implemented as a distinct [Postgres schema](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/ddl-schemas.html).  As such, you can use qualified table names to query a specific connection:

```sql
select * from scalingo_osc.scalingo_app
```

You can multi-account connections by using an [**aggregator** connection](https://steampipe.io/docs/using-steampipe/managing-connections#using-aggregators).  Aggregators allow you to query data from multiple connections for a plugin as if they are a single connection:

```
connection "scalingo_all" {
  plugin      = "francois2metz/scalingo"
  type        = "aggregator"
  connections = ["scalingo_osc", "scalingo_secnum"]
}
```

Querying tables from this connection will return results from the `scalingo_osc`, and `scalingo_secnum` connections:
```sql
select * from scalingo_all.scalingo_app
```

Steampipe supports the `*` wildcard in the connection names.  For example, to aggregate all the Scalingo plugin connections whose names begin with `scalingo_`:

```hcl
connection "scalingo_all" {
  type        = "aggregator"
  plugin      = "francois2metz/scalingo"
  connections = ["scalingo_*"]
}
```
